[Proposal] Symfony Guide (#3)
pestphp/website: source/docs/guides/symfony.md

---
title: Symfony Guide
description: The Symfony Guide
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

# Symfony Guide

Pest was built to be framework agnostic, but as it's easily extendable, it works well in [Symfony](https://symfony.com) applications.

Now, in this guide, we are going to transform a Symfony test into a Pest test.

> A basic functionnal test in Symfony look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A basic functional test in Symfony looks like the following:
```

```php
<?php

namespace App\Tests;

use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Test\WebTestCase;

class DefaultControllerTest extends WebTestCase
{
    public function testSomething()
    {
        $client = static::createClient();
        $client->request('GET', '/');

        $this->assertResponseIsSuccessful();
        $this->assertSelectorTextContains('h1', 'Hello World');
    }
}
```

> With Pest, the same test could be write like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Pest, the same test could be written like this:
```

```php
<?php

> uses(\Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Test\WebTestCase::class);

Reviewer: Can you start by creating a `Pest.php` with this content, and then talk about the test? I think it would make it cleaner.

Author: I can, but my idea was to introduce one test as single tests, then introduce the Pest power :muscle: 

Let me rethink it :wink:

it('test something', function() {

>     static::createClient()->request('GET', '/');

Reviewer: Can't you chain this? Like:
```php
static::createClient()->request('GET', '/')
    ->assertResponseIsSuccessful()
    ->assertSelectorTextContains('h1', 'Hello World');
```

Author: No, request return a [Crawler](https://github.com/symfony/dom-crawler/blob/master/Crawler.php) and assertions are void methods.

    $this->assertResponseIsSuccessful();
    $this->assertSelectorTextContains('h1', 'Hello World');
});
```

If you organize your tests following your app directories, you can automatically add the `uses(WebTestCase::class)` in all
your ControllerTests located in folder `tests/Controller` by adding the following in `tests/Pest.php`:

```php
<?php
// tests/Pest.php

uses(\Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Test\WebTestCase::class)->in('Controller');
```

You can now remove the `uses(..)` in all your tests in `Controller` directory.

> ## Helpers

Reviewer: I think this all section should be removed.

Reviewer: For now.

Author: Even `function container` and `function client()` ?
